.de Vb \" Begin verbatim text
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve \" End verbatim text
.ft R
.fi
..
.TH "unionfs" "8" "2022" "unionfs-fuse 3.2" ""
.SH "NAME"
unionfs\-fuse \- A userspace unionfs implementation
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B unionfs
\fB[\-o \fIoption1\fP \-o \fIoption2\fP ... \-o \fIoptionN\fP ]\fR
             \fBtop_branch:lower_branch:...:lowest_branch \fR
             \fBmount_point\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBunionfs\fR overlays several directories into one single mount point.
.PP
It first tries to access the file on the top branch and if the file does not exist
there, it continues on lower level branches.
If the user tries to modify a file on a lower level read\-only branch while
.B copy\-on\-write (cow)
mode is enabled, the file will be copied to a higher level read\-write branch.
.SH "OPTIONS"
Below is a summary of unionfs options
.TP
\fB\-o chroot=path
Path to chroot into. By using this option, unionfs
may be used for live CDs or live USB sticks, etc. So it can serve
"/" as filesystem. If you do not specify this option and try to use
it for "/", it will deadlock on calling 'pivot_root'.
If you set this option, you also need to specify the branches relatively
to the given chroot directory. See
.I examples/S01a-unionfs-live-cd.sh
for an example.
.TP
\fB\-o cow
Enable copy\-on\-write
.TP
\fB\-o hide_meta_files
In our unionfs root path we have a
.I .unionfs
directory that includes
metadata, such as hidden (deleted) files. This option makes this
directory invisible from readdir(), so for example
.B ls -la /union_root
will not show it. However, this directory is still there and
.B cd .unionfs
or
.B ls -l .unionfs
still work. Also, libfuse will create
.I \%.fuse_hidden*
files, if a file is open, but will be deleted. Those fuse meta files will
be invisible as well. This option is especially useful for package builders.
.TP
\fB\-d
Enable debugging for unionfs and libfuse. Useful for developers
if the code does not behave as expected. Debug information will be written
to stderr and a debug file (./unionfs_debug.log by default).
.TP
\fB\-o debug_file=file
Write unionfs debug information into that file.
.TP
\fB\-o max_files=number
Maximum number of open files. Most systems have a default limit of 1024
open files per process. For example if unionfs serves "/", applications
like KDE or GNOME might have many open files, making the unionfs process
reach this limit and unable to open further files. Suggested value for "/"
is >16000 or even >32000 files.
.TP
\fB\-o noinitgroups
Since version 0.23 without any effect, just left over for compatibility.
Might be removed in future versions.
.TP
\fB\-o relaxed_permissions
Usually we automatically add the libfuse option
.B \-o \%default_permissions
so that libfuse takes over permission checks. However, if running not
as root (so as UID\ !=\ 0 and GID\ !=\ 0), permissions on the underlying
filesystem are already sufficient. In order to prevent severe
security issues, this option is not allowed if running as root.
.TP
\fB\-o statfs_omit_ro
By default, blocks of all branches are counted in statfs() calls
(e.g. by 'df'). With this option, read-only branches will be omitted
from the summary of blocks. This may sound weird, but it actually fixes
"wrong" percentage of free space.
.TP
.SH "Options to libfuse"
There are several further options available, which don't directly apply to
unionfs, but to libfuse. Please run
.B unionfs \-\-help
to see these. We already set
.B \-o \%default_permissions
option on our own.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.Vb 5
\& unionfs \-o cow,max_files=32768 \e
\&              \-o allow_other,use_ino,suid,dev,nonempty \e
\&              /u/host/etc=RW:/u/group/etc=RO:/u/common/etc=RO \e
\&              /u/union/etc
.Ve
.SH "Meta data"
Like other filesystems unionfs also needs to store meta data.
Well, presently only information about deleted files and directories need
to be stored, but in future releases more information might be required, e.g.
inode-numbers for persistent inode information.
Meta data information are saved and looked for in the .unionfs/
directories of each branch-root. So in the example above, these are
/u/host/etc/.unionfs, /u/group/etc/.unionfs and /u/common/etc/.unionfs.
Within these directories a complete directory structure may be found.
Example: If the admin decides to delete the file /etc/test/testfile, which
only exists in /u/unionfs/etc/test/testfile, unionfs can't delete this
file, since it is on a read-only branch. So instead the whiteout file
/u/host/etc/.unionfs/test/testfile_HIDDEN~ will be created. So on accessing
the union filesystem, test/testfile will not be visible.
Please also note that whiteout files/directories will only hide the files
in lower level branches. So for example whiteouts in the group directory
(/u/group/etc/.unionfs of the example above) will only hide file of the
common branch (/u/common/etc), but not these of the group and host branches.
Especially for diskless-booted environments it is rather useful for the admin
to create whiteout files him/her-self. For example one should blacklist
network re-initializations, /etc/mtab, /etc/nologin of the server and several
cron-scripts. This can be easily achieved by creating whiteout files for
these scripts in the group meta directory.
.SH "KNOWN ISSUES"
.Vb 5
\&1) Another issue is that presently there is no support for read-only branches
when copy-on-write is disabled, thus, -ocow is NOT specified! Support for
that might be added in later releases.
.Ve
.SH "AUTHORS"
.B unionfs\-fuse
Original implementation by Radek Podgorny <radek@podgorny.cz>
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Radek Podgorny <radek\@podgorny.cz>, Bernd Schubert <bernd\-schubert\@gmx.de>
.SH "THANKS"
Many thanks to the author of the FUSE filesystem Miklos Szeredi.
